but sliding and vibrato got to a vibrato
in a minute but sliding is never sounds
bad really to slide on on a fretless
bass but I love the tonal quality of it
so next yeah I'll move finally on to the
burrata now there are a few ways of
playing the burrata there's kind of the
standard rock vibrato which is bending
the string up and down like that
you can see a little bit clearly up and
down I thought I'm now on a fret base on
electric guitar sounds alright but on a
fretless you seem to go sometimes that
it can bend the pitch too much and then
you go out of tune now there the other
way of playing vibrato which I
instinctively do all the time now thanks
to playing fretless and also a plank
cello it is it is a similar technique to
channel the broto is on the tipsy
fingers tip of your finger and you know
on the g string and what you need to do
is I'm gonna do it really really
literally here I'll just show you here
you kind of rolling your finger on
the fingerboard back and forth so it
slightly alters the pitch see if I do it
really slowly notice how it's coming
sharp and flat Java and you speed that
up into one motion now you don't even
really need your thumb on the back of
the neck your thumb can just rest like
the back of the nexus wall and figure
just go and of course you can change the
speed of it say for example if you've
got let's say we do here on the g string
just doing rundown I just go you can do
nice slow vibrato now say if you're
doing something kind of funky just
making it kind of like Roger is along
quicker a lot snappier as well now that
again that's just an alteration of the
speed one thing we remember not to do is
don't do this don't use your wrist don't
do that with your wrist you don't want
your wrist doing that you want it to
come from your arm and your fingers
right not from your wrist wrist isn't no
no see how it's just coming from my arm
and my wrist is remaining pretty much
where it is now that's pretty much
exactly the same as cello vibrato but
some slight alterations to yeah that's
that's fun
one thing I would advise you not to do
because it's not really very possible is
another thing that I talked about in
another lesson was one finger per fret
or per this is per no on the fingerboard
is you can't really do for otter with
all your fingers pressed down you kind
of need to do it with maximum of two
fingers press down anymore it gets a bit
tricky because of all the pressure on
the string so yeah that's about it I
think oh yeah one more thing with our
exercise you can also do that with the
minor scale obviously and so on to give
us give those exercises ago and yeah if
you like any more help on vibrato just
let me know okay right